>> Brian: We're gonna import axios, which
is just a promise based AJAX library.
Okay, we're gonna give Details a state,
so we're gonna say getInitialState.
>> Brian: Then we're going to return
omdbData: Empty object.
>> Brian: And
what we're gonna do after that is
we're gonna put a componentDidMount.
>> Brian: So we're gonna
say from here
axios.get('http://www.omdbapi.com/?')
=${}
>> Brian: This.props.show.imdbID.
That's right.
Yep, we're gonna have to add that to the
propsTypes up here, so put that up here.
imdbID, which is a string.
>> Brian: So
first of all, big shout out to OMDb,
which is basically an API version of IMDb.
The guy runs it on his own time,
so I always encourage people to donate
to it, because it's completely free.
We don't have to sign up for it,
we don't have to pass it a token.
The guy is just awesome.
So he, he or
she I don't know who it is, but
has gracefully agreed to
allow us to use their
API.
>> Brian: Okay, so
we're gonna do that,
then this is going to return a promise.
So what I'm going to do right after that
is I'm just going to say .then((response).
>> Brian: We're gonna say this.setState.
>> Brian: ,
>> Brian: And we're gonna put a catch.
>> Brian: And all we really wanna do is we
just wanna say console.error.
>> Brian: ('axios error', error).
It's just good to alert yourself
that something went wrong.
Typically you would do more here, but
right now I wanna just debut it if it goes
wrong.
>> Speaker 2: Raven is saying
the same the query string should be,
I can't read that exactly.
>> Brian: I.
>> Speaker 2: i equals.
>> Brian: Sorry.
>> Brian: Yeah, omdb.com/?i=,
I forgot the i.
>> Brian: Okay, so what this is gonna do,
this is going to go out to the API.
It's gonna go grab the show
that we're interested in and
it's going to return it back to us.
And then this is going to set
it in the state in omdbData.
This is going to have way more
than just the rating of the show,
which is all we're going to use.
But like say you wanted to update
the poster on the fly, and
you wanted to update the trailer on the
fly, and the description, all that stuff
you could do some sort of cool merge
to get updated data all the time.
But right now we're just going to do,
>> Brian: Just
the rating.
>> Speaker 2: So
the first time it comes up it shows it.
It does the call to get the data It does
a setState which forces a re-render.
And then you're going to hit it again,
right?
How's it not doing it if it's in a loop?
>> Brian: So componentDidMount gets called
exactly once.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, so
it's only if it mounts,
it's only a mount and not a render?
>> Brian: Correct.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, sorry.
>> Speaker 3: Does componentDidMount get
called then, subsequently,
like if you navigate to a different state,
then back to this state it would be called
again, cuz it's gonna render it again?
>> Brian: Yeah, so it's gonna request that
data again from the API,
which we're going to fix with Redux.
But that is astute,
because if we go to the search page and
then back to the same page, we're gonna
request the same data over again,
which kinda sucks.
>> Brian: Okay,
so here inside of render,
>> Brian: We're gonna say let
rating,
>> Brian: if
(this.state.omdbData.imdbRating).
>> Brian: So this is basically saying,
hey, if inside of omdbData,
if you have an imdbRating that means
the data from the API has come back.
So then we're gonna show you the rating,
otherwise we're gonna show you
some sort of loading state.
So if it's there then
it's going to be equal to
an h3 with just that data inside of it.
This.state.omdbData.imdRating.
>> Speaker 2: You didn't close the curly
brackets.
>> Brian: There it is,
thank you.
>> Brian: else rating =,
and we're gonna put up our spinner now.
The img src='/public/img/loading.png'.
Make sure you put your alt
text on there so it spins.
[LAUGH] loading indicator.
>> Brian: Again,
this is a horrible use of alt text.
One should never target alt text.
[LAUGH] And I'm just saying this is
ridiculous, please don't do this.
This is just a horrible
abuse both of CSS and
accessibility.
>> Brian: Okay, so
now we have rating, which is going
to contain one of two components.
It's either gonna be a loading state or
it's going to be data that
we have back from the API.
And then between year and poster,
we're gonna just throw that in there.
>> Brian: Okay, so
let's save that and make sure that works.
If we come back to frontend Masters React,
hit Refresh.
>> Brian: It's fast
enough that we don't actually even see it,
the loading.
But you can see right there that it's 8.3,
which is live data back from the API,
which is pretty cool.
I wonder if I can get it?
Yeah, the PNG doesn't even load
before it comes back to the API.
>> Speaker 2: You can slow it down if
you use the dev tools.
>> Brian: Yeah,
that's a good idea.
>> Brian: Performance,
is that where I would do this?
Or Network?
>> Speaker 2: No, I think it's,
yeah.
>> Speaker 3: If you throw the setState at
a time out, too,
you can kinda pause it for however long.
>> Brian: Well, I got into something else.
So I just switched to using
Firefox maybe a month ago.
>> Speaker 3: I don't know Firefox tools
at all.
>> Speaker 2: I think it's
in the settings, isn't it?
>> Brian: I think it's in here.
>> Speaker 2: Is there
a little mobile icon or something?
>> Brian: Okay,
so we'll try refreshing that.
So Juan, this sucks.
How long is this gonna take to load?
>> Speaker 2: We put it at least on 4G or
something.
>> Brian: Yeah, there we go.
>> Speaker 2: There we go, okay.
>> Brian: There you go.
>> Brian: [LAUGH] Man, I have so
many horrific stories of how
I've abused the Chrome DevTools.
I once left throttling on for
like, a month.
So I was getting a 3G connection
on my laptop all the time, and
I hated everyone and every website.
That was bad.
And when I found that I was like,
what have I been doing with my life?
[LAUGH] I probably wasted like a week.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: That's so
bad.
>> Brian: Another horrible one is that you
can turn off JavaScript with
the Chrome DevTools and it's only
off when the DevTools are open, but
they don't reset that flag ever.
So I was giving a workshop at AusCon,
and I was
just having these crazy bugs, where all of
a sudden my app would just totally crash.
And I was just like, what is going on?
And then like it would work sometimes and
then it wouldn't work and
I couldn't figure it out.
And I realized that every
time I was opening and
closing the DevTools
it would crash my app.
[LAUGH] I mean,
I must have had that for a while, too.
So, shit, it's just make sure
you turn off throttling and
turn off disable JavaScript.
Okay, any questions about axios, whatever?
The doc's really great for axios,
so if you need that, go read that.
But for componentDidMount,
AJAX requests, setState,
conditionally showing components.
>> Brian: So
I guess one thing that I'll throw out
there for specifically with doing
componentDidMount and that way of doing
things, it forces you to show some kind of
loading state when you're loading data,
and that's always a good thing.
Like you want the users to feel like
your application is interactive
before it's actually interactive, right?
And so
that kind of forces you is like, okay,
show them something then we're
gonna quickly load data.
And then we're gonna
show you the real thing.
And that's a positive pattern for
doing interfaces.
And React kind of strongly
nudges you in that
direction.
>> Brian: So something I'll just kind of
throw out there real quick,
notice I used an arrow function here.
Typically that's not a big deal, but
if you choose use function or not.
However, it is in this case.
If I'd put function here instead of
arrow function, this would break.
Why?
Well, it would break because,
what's this, right?
That's a question you have to ask
yourself in JavaScript constantly.
>> Brian: This,
if you don't use an arrow function,
is going to refer to the promise or
the window.
I don't remember what it's gonna be.
But it's not going to be Details, right?
And it needs to be Details because
we wanna call setState on Details.
By using the arrow function here
we're not creating new context,
which is one of the features
of arrow function, so
that it doesn't create new
context when you create them.
So it's going to be whatever
the context it was called in.
So it's called in componentDidMount,
componentDidMount's context is details and
so that's why this.setState
works here with no magic, right?
If this was function,
>> Brian: So
you would either have to
do .bind(this) right here.
That would work.
You could use the self pattern.
That would be fine, too.
There's a couple different
ways to achieve that.
But it's just really easy
with arrow functions.
It specifically is convenient
>> Speaker 2: Question, what are the
advantages of using axios over fetch?
>> Brian: I
don't know if I necessarily
have a great answer.
It's just I've used axios for
such a long time I just keep using it.
The nice thing about fetch,
is it's in the browser, right?
So you just poly fill it and
you can use it, so
fetch is a perfectly acceptable
way to do it as well.
I just find axios really easy to use,
and I've also used it so
much I know the entire API.
[LAUGH] I don't really have
a better answer than that.
>> Speaker 2: Gus was asking, with React,
how you deal with FOUC,
so you never see React
has not rendered on index.html?
>> Brian: Universal rendering,
isomorphic rendering, server side
rendering, whatever you wanna call it.
And we would do that maybe in an hour or
so
we'll be doing that.
>> Speaker 2: Let's
see.
>> Speaker 2: Things are bouncing.
>> Speaker 2: Is axios, fetch,
our React-based AJAX, or
can be used with other frameworks?
>> Brian: Yeah,
they are not necessarily tied to any
framework, they're just libraries.